thank you
it's called diorama and really what we
were trying to what we realized in
building online exhibitions was that we
can't totally build an entire world in
something that's easily accessible
visible all around the world and it
loads really quickly and completely on
any device we have technological parties
to this I think digital the digital
divide is really strong so but instead
what we can do is we can present a
diorama a small window into a larger
world and that's really what this show
is all about is giving entry points and
access points to the larger World
building practices of the artists who
are included in the show
um and so before you know before we
continue
um I thought that I was wondering if Don
you could give us a little bit of
background on new art city as a toolkit
and how the I won't say platform uh
operates
sorry Don one second I think you're
muted
there we go try that again
um yeah I just want to say it's great to
be working with gray area again for the
second year in a row to present their
Festival as well as several of their
exhibitions throughout the year
um so yeah so new art city it's it's a
website and it's really a toolkit for
artists working in to build and work in
3D so you can bring in whatever kind of
multimedia files that you've got upload
them and arrange them in a 3D space
um and the idea is that this is this is
a toolkit that's accessible to artists
and you can build and present your work
in the kind of format and the setting
that you imagine like the best possible
setting for your work that you just
create yourself
um
and yet we're always accepting new
proposals and submissions we have a
proposal form on our site so you can
easily get in touch and tell us what you
want to do and then we'd send over space
to you and it's just like a regular
content management system where you
upload your your stuff and then you work
with it in the in the toolkit
um we've been going for about a year and
a half now we started in March of 2020
and we have around 70 shows launched and
many many more that are kind of quietly
below the surface
um
so yeah we love to work with
any artist who wants to reach out and
especially with
um universities students
um organizations like grayer such a
great example of the organization that's
really made
made
like the most use of
um Newark city made the most of the
toolkit
so yeah I want to pass it back to you
Aid
thanks so much John I just want to
screen shared a little bit of the site
so you can check out what it looks like
um and now I want to jump in and start
actually showing you the exhibition
um anyone who's in the audience right
now you can go to
newart.city that's new art dot City uh
and click on diorama to come inside the
environment of the space and tour around
it with us
um I'm just going to load it up right
here and I'll give you a little and
we'll walk through some of the rooms um
and the spaces within the exhibition I'm
really excited that today here with me
uh we have Jeremy quillard and
squawanati two of the artists from the
show uh give a little wave uh skywanadi
and Jeremy
um thank you so much for being here
today
um we're gonna keep this kind of kind of
uh we're gonna keep this kind of
informal today I'm going to go through
full bios and give more information on
everybody during the main book of the
festival that's coming up this week you
can head to
grayareafestival.io to check out the
full lineup I really encourage everyone
to sign up and become a member for gray
area so that you can also get access to
our video lounges the video lounges will
be our special environment for the
festival the full Festival will be live
streamed right in there and you can come
and interact with myself my co-curators
the artists and the gray area team so we
hope to see you I hope to see you guys
in there uh over uh the course of the
festival
um and with that um I'm just going to
jump right into the show so as I um so
again as I said you can head to
newart.city in your web browser if you
want to come and jump in the show with
us
um we've got uh this is my screen here I
hope you can see the link if you have
any issues finding the specific show
um and here we go
[Music]
um what we attempted to do was create
something similar to something you might
see at the Museum of Natural History in
New York the diorama has been an exhibit
an exhibiting technique throughout the
ages that has uh perpetuated stereotypes
uh it has perpetuated colonialist ideals
um and patriarchal structures uh as well
as uh upheld racist and other damaging
tropes um in the past and so with this
exhibition we wanted to toy with the
idea of diorama not only as something
that points to a larger world and helps
us to understand something much larger
but also a critique the technology of
display as it has been used to harm so
many different people over the ages uh
in museum spaces
um this so this is kind of you know how
the so you can see our little Sculpture
Garden on the outside followed in each
of the different Works in this Garden
will teleport you to different room here
in front of me I've worked by Julie
Chang for instance
and you know each different area
represents is a different microcosm of
something that we hope to to help you to
we hope to lead you into uh please feel
free to explore the exhibition uh jump
through the portals and dive through the
different rooms that we have on offer I
can see a bunch of people uh in the room
with me represented by little triangles
uh flying around
um
and without further so Sammy do you want
to talk a little bit about
um some of the environments that you've
made in here
um and we'll how you were thinking about
implementing this I do this idea of
diorama that I that I brought to you
sure
um well I I don't have that much
experience with 3D modeling to be honest
I've been doing this for like six months
and it's just like figured out a couple
of tricks and I was like seeing if they
would work and sort of
I don't know I I made it completely
different other exhibition before like I
don't know I think like two weeks before
we uh or like two or three weeks earlier
whether it was like this room was just
completely different
[Music]
um
so but like I I think
yeah I was really work trying to see
like what other people were doing and
there was definitely like a theme of
water and there like I was looking into
like I was trying to sort of filter back
the insights from what I was seeing
elsewhere and make it so it was like a
congress space so like originally it was
a forest and there were a bunch of
galleries all around it that were all
different and like shifting in shape but
it got like really confusing
um and so
I've made this animated Forest that I
liked
um and then I realized it like if you
made it it was huge and walking around
it was really fun but it was again kind
of disorienting but once you make it
really small it's like really cute and
fun and this sort of like
yeah like recursion where you where you
alter the scale of something is
something that like really fascinates me
I really like in in the piece that I
included in fact there's a
there's a miniature of the gallery
inside of one of the galleries inside of
that miniature of course is another
miniature and so on
um
foreign
yeah I don't know
no it's really beautiful and I think
that's that's really helpful in kind of
thinking through this idea of microcosms
and macrocosms and the connection to
worlding it runs through throughout the
festival
um and it's it's you know the way you
played with scale here with the small
trees uh the small Josh of Jews and
cactuses on this desert landscape
meanwhile you have the massive towering
figure of uh Les misum by hisu Kwan here
uh it's quite clever
um and really fun to to explore
um since we're right here uh we're right
at the portal to galwaynadi's room
um and
yeah
sorry about that guys
um I'm having a chair moment
um
sweet
oh the joys of virtual
apology
um
here we go
so here we are in the lobby space right
at the portal to uh skalanati's room
um we have a series of containers of
canisters with different colored
blossoms floating inside that
um this this uh sculptural work comes
from a larger Machinima produced in
Second Life by escalonadi uh what's
going on do you want to talk a little
bit about the film that these canisters
come from and what they represent
um
can you hear me yes okay sorry about
that
um oh I'm not this so I made a movie
um a mission Emma called she falls for
ages and she falls for ages is a Sci-Fi
retelling of the hedona Shoni creation
story
is Iroquois for those of you don't know
we've just restarted in the last few
years using our own name for ourselves
and
um in this story
it's got many versions
essential to all of them is well first
of all the fact that it takes place in a
place beyond the heavens AKA Skyworld
and on in Skyworld or on sky world is a
tree the celestial tree which is figures
prominently in a lot of our bead work
and is talked about all the time and
here you see it my version of it
um in one story it says it Bears many
different fruit and another story it
says it it blossoms light the world and
so that's where I got the idea to have
glowing blossoms
um and as well uh in the stories that
I've always heard Skyworld looks like
pre-contact iroquoia so there are you
know wooden long houses and people where
Buckskin clothing and there's clay plots
and I was like what is Skyworld was
another planet really and what if it
like looked super futuristic
uh and so that's what I wanted to have
happened in Skyworld
um and then so I made that movie and you
can go see it at skyunari.com uh and
it's like about 20 minutes long
but then I made a prequel just like a
one minute seriously long Machinima and
um in it I imagined
oh I didn't tell you a whole bunch of
stuff you have to watch the whole movie
to get the prequel I guess
anyway I don't want to talk too long but
the canisters or the Vats I'm not sure
what to call them I have we never named
them but they um I put those in another
Machinima and you can see inside each
one is a blossom as though they were
being developed because the idea that I
imagined in sky world was that the
people of Skyworld who are brilliant
botanists developed an energy producing
light producing tree over thousands of
years of careful cultivation
so that's this is a slice of sky world
um just a very simple
um
kind of Nod to the set that we had in uh
in the movie the tree is a central
element of that set we have the same
floor in that set we have a pink sky
pink atmosphere in that set and um
and so I put the canisters around them
because I thought it would be a really
nice installation and I believe you can
click on something like maybe the tree
and you can actually go and see more
parts of the set you wouldn't actually
be on the set but you would be at abtech
Island
Aboriginal territories in cyberspace is
a research creation Network that I
co-founded with my partner Jason Lewis
and we
um we have had our our cyberspace
headquarters in Second Life on aptic
island for a number of years already and
we've developed it in such a way that
you can go visit it of course 24 7. on
Fridays
I have we have research assistants
Jason's a professor so some of his
research assistants are in world to
greet you show you around give you a
tour you could be like where's the rest
of this uh she falls raid just set and
they'll show you
um I got I could talk for ages so I'm
going to try not to do that but if you
have any questions if anyone has any
questions I'll be here for a while
yeah everyone come join us in the video
lounges and we'll go through the Q a and
we'll chat and we'll talk all about the
show
um what's going on this is such a
beautiful piece and it's so meaningful
to be able to include this here
um you know again as you know you said
this piece is currently posed in on
abtech island in Second Life
um and what we've tried to do here again
was create a small diorama that leads to
a larger world so we encourage you as
you explore the show to click the link
go through to the larger universes that
artists have created
um and you please see these Works in
their native virtual contexts this is
just a small diorama of something much
much larger and much more expensive
um
wow it's so beautiful I mean so naughty
uh how
um I know that you have some open hours
in abtech is there a good time for
people to come and visit yes thank you
for asking uh every Friday uh from 1 30
to 3 30 Eastern Standard Time is when
there are staff there to give you a tour
yeah but otherwise people are welcome to
come anytime wonderful yeah I encourage
everyone to check it out second life is
a really beautiful and Rich ecosystem
that has been uh stalwart in online
communities for well over a decade maybe
even two now
um and it's just a really special place
to get to you know a window into your
into your work in your your community so
thank you so much it's going on you
um
I'm gonna load up now we have another
artist with us here Jeremy cuyard
um who I'm who Jeremy you know I've told
you this so many times I've been a huge
fan of your work forever your video
games make me laugh make me cry I've
spent hours and hours and hours in my
life playing them and uh I've been
wanting to you know I've been wanting to
you know work with you and do a
different kind of interactive
installation for forever
um so this is a real a real treat for me
um you want to introduce yourself really
quick yeah can you all hear me am I
muted yes perfectly
oh you hear me okay because you're good
I'm like I've been on Zoom all day at
work for work I'm a professor we had
meetings all day so I'm just like used
to zooming now like a bit zacked so
sorry
um hi I'm uh Jeremy couyard I'm a artist
game designer
um and yeah Wade thank you so much for
the kind words I'm super excited about
this Festival it looks really cool
um and what what else did you ask me
oh
um no I wanted did you before I write in
I was one
before you jump right in I was wondering
if you could
um tell us a little bit about the room
first it has kind of a a strange title
um yeah
um
let's see so I mean the room is is
designed with a lot of assets from just
different video games I've been working
on um some of it is from my last game
fuzz dungeon uh Wade which I think you
played recently it came out in June
um but those assets were a little too um
large file size wise so I started using
a lot of assets from a current project
I'm working on where I'm building out a
city
um
and
what can I say I you know I guess I I'm
thinking a lot about the kind of World
building I do is um
I think about the World building we do
in our heads automatically to kind of
like deal with reality
um in these kind of like subconscious
worlds that we've uh
build up that are kind of just like an
amalgamation of all the crazy
happening throughout our entire lives so
I end up getting these kind of like
chimeric weird monsters that sort of
look like cartoons or video games I
played when I was a kid
um
and I'm just creating a world that you
can kind of explore that's sort of like
being inside my head I guess
um and the title is um
I was just wondering I mean like nobody
ever deals with uh
the vampire's breathing
we know that you can kill a vampire uh
with a stake or with like a garlic or a
cross but like what would happen if they
just went underwater and didn't ever
come up like would they die I don't and
it's just these kinds of like
world that we build in our head that
where the logic is not so fleshed out
if that makes sense um which it never is
because we as humans just don't make a
lot of sense you know
um
yeah
we we do a lot of absurd things that we
just don't realize like how crazy the
world is yeah
I think I'm on a delay by the way
no that's okay we you know bandwidth is
real it's one of the protocols of our
world that we need to deal with
um and it's you know again part of the
part of the the whole point of this
entire Festival
um so just to go back um the title of
the room is can vampires drown to death
um and that's a really good question
um I don't know the answer to but maybe
vampire movie I think that's why I
thought of it
oh my gosh so here we are in in your
room for folks um who are in Newark city
and listening in go to as you walk into
the undivision walk forward and left and
find the deer portal the deer portal
looks just like this
um but here we are in the forest these
deer are so funny I'm very like they're
they're so silly um and cracking up
um and you know as we move through this
part of the exhibition there are small
narrative pieces um throughout
um again as I said this is just one
small piece of a larger world and I
really encourage you to go to Jeremy's
bitch.io page where you can download uh
his interactive game pieces
um and there you can get kind of the
full story uh but it's really special to
have this this small window I love this
kind of um you know like like uh uh easy
a yogi the kind of meditating guy
um
pretty funny
yeah and all the um there's like little
videos there uh that's Long Island City
and I did that like uh go back in time
in Google maps and it was just crazy how
much it's changed I think it's one of
the fastest growing cities
and and maybe North America but it's
just it's where I work and I work at a
community college and I and I just think
like who is this change for it's not for
any of the people who live there and
it's just and it's just so funny to like
build real estate just for speculation
rather than for people to live in like
what a hilar like what the hell that's
such a weird very human concept it's
just so absurd
yeah I mean it's really striking to see
these images knowing it but you you kind
of place them in different locations
throughout the install and they're quite
jarring see them and you're kind of not
sure what you're looking at it takes a
few minutes a few seconds before you
really understand
um
you know what's happening in these in
these positions and I mean for you what
like what is it when you're walking
through Long Island City you know IRL
what is it what does it feel like to now
it feels very like oppressive just like
there's these changes that are happening
and I I they're not for me or anybody I
know they're for mysterious outside
forces that I don't
we want to have anything to do with to
some extent you know
um so it feels bad I guess you know
but it's just a trend and imagine quite
isolated yeah yeah
I love this quote so this is a small
diorama room
um you know inside of the installation
um and I love this line can you imagine
Karl Marx taking a and looking at
Reddit on his phone
um hey nice to see you in here uh uh can
you this is just too funny
um it really cracks me up
um and I wanted you know you have these
kind of pithy hilarious like you know
kind of disingenuous but also really
cutting uh Snippets throughout
um and I'm wondering are these quotes
that you found or these kind of things
that you Ponder in the shower or while
you are taking a and looking at
Reddit exactly
you just come you know it's just those
things you got it it's just like those
moments in your day when you're just
like
not looking at a screen maybe and your
brain can kind of wander a little bit um
and it's just that you know the shower
thoughts and yeah waiting in line at
Costco or whatever
thinking about how weird the world is
how um
will be absurd is something that you
know of course runs throughout your work
I mean where else could you find this
four-legged duck alien creature
I think yeah
and what it like you know it it feels
like you know you express yourself
through the Absurd in such clear ways I
know that sounds like an oxymoron but it
feels true
um
furnace
that language that language of the
Absurd to you know Express these really
deep but almost Indescribable feelings
about this crazy crazy life and world
that we live in
I mean I just just from living in the
world and thinking about it I guess you
know
um I'm doing a midnight moment right now
in Times Square so I've been going to
Times Square a lot at midnight uh to
watch my art on like 80 80 monitors and
that like I I don't know that seems just
so fitting for what I do it's just like
this total absurdity of just all these
tourists from all over the world and
kids that come down from the Bronx to
like you know hang out and like dance
together and like then just like you
know Naked Cowboy or whatever Elmo
people you know
um and then the monitors and people just
trying to sell you things and Banks
advertising it's just such a wild world
and yeah there's the guy you like
laughs we might have absolute favorite
part of the whole installation it's the
teeny tiny
it's a weird alien cow's butthole Who as
a teacher that says depression oh Don's
right in there dawn has been like coming
through
it's it's so funny and like they're also
you know to me like the absurdity of
what it feels like to be alive I mean
what it feels like to be depressed it's
a such a stupid feeling and sometimes
you just feel like you know you feel
like this little guy Giants
it just feels so true yeah
um but then I've always really admired
that about you
thank you yeah it's like it's like it's
never so simple as just being depressed
right it's like you can be depressed but
also
you have to remember how strange and
wonderful in a way life is also so it's
like it's really like life is always
two different things all the time
or something or you know it's never one
thing I guess
[Music]
all around the country crowser learning
to play guitar and forming Christian
death metal bands where do we go from
here and how can we become crows
um
uh Jeremy's larger narratives
um and then you end here on the rooftop
uh with the with the witch uh swimming
through the Long Island City Pool
she's just having a great time
um yeah I'm waiting for everyone else to
jump in
um
you know it's it's I've always really
appreciated you know the way that you
you know express yourself and you
express these things about feelings and
you know there's two things that really
come to mind that connect to the larger
impetus for this show you know one being
the connection to
the fact that we live in bodies and we
have certain biological and socially
constructed protocols that come along
with that one of them being feelings and
how we express them and the way we feel
and you know having to live within a
certain kind of world that is so many
different things at the same time and I
think that the absurdity in your work
you know really speaks to that really
poignantly
um at the same time
um I at the same time there's like the
way that your work takes a holistic view
of the world
um also really speaks to this idea of
worlding and this idea that we can't
look at the world as black or white we
can't look it out as utopian or
dystopian we have to really you know not
to be corny but we really have to
understand the full scale of grayness
the gray area uh you know in between
um and the complex with the simple take
the good with the bad because we can't
extricate those things from each other
and you know I think that through
looking at that complicatedness that
that complexity
um we find meaning and I've always found
meaning in your work uh in that way
um
wow
you want to say or you want to point out
uh in this space while I'm uh flying
around I mean no I think you've said it
very beautifully thank you
We snuck into all the nooks and literal
literal crannies yes yeah that's great
I'm gonna turn off my cool screenshot
um and uh you know Matt if you want to
bring up anybody else who's still who's
still here with us
um you know thank you everyone for for
being here for the exhibition opening
we're gonna do tons more of activations
of the exhibition come on back uh this
Sunday uh afternoon we're gonna do a a
deep dive into the whole show take you
room by room artwork by artwork
um and get a little bit more in depth
this is just to give everybody a little
taste and we hope that before Sunday you
take some time and explore the show
yourself
um at this point you know we're at about
30 we're just over 30 minutes Don Sammy
and do you want to any last words about
the show before we kick off the after
party in the video lounges
it was it was a huge effort and this was
just an amazing show that came together
and it's so amazing to be able to
feature these artists from around the
world especially on a in a virtual site
that everybody in the world can visit so
absolutely
um and one thing that I failed to
mention at the beginning due to my uh
moment of uh technical technological
collapse
um this show was co-produced with Nikki
Sulkin and Victor pumader
um they have spent countless hours with
me build you know doing uh fixing
objects decimating shapes and getting
the show together
um so thank you guys so so much
um I also failed to produce the
acknowledgments that I wanted to give at
the beginning of this session
um and you know here in at gray area and
in San Francisco we are sitting on the
unseated land of the robotic Ohlone
people as well as the coastal people of
the Bay Area
um I want to acknowledge that this is
their land and we respectfully um and
gracefully uh you know thank them for
their continued stewardship especially
during times of severe drought uh and
fire
um and so apologies that I didn't say
that earlier
um thanks everyone for being here we're
gonna hop into the video lounges now
please anybody who's in the show keep
looking around come join us in the
lounge when you're ready we're going to
be hanging out running different
sessions and just having a grand old
time and celebrating the opening of this
absolutely wonderful Festival thank you
so much Jeremy uh and Scotty
um and I will see you guys over there in
just a few minutes did you put the link
somewhere for us to just click through
or is that uh should I go to the email
okay great okay thanks